## Dana Tolman
<a href="tel:+1(657)527-7457" classname="resume-anchor">+1-657-527-7457</a> <br />
<a href="mailto:danatolman@icloud.com" classname="resume-anchor">danatolman@icloud.com</a> <br />
<details className='resume-details resume-anchor'>
<summary>Los Angeles, CA 90015</summary><br/>
<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d26449.36617493846!2d-118.28669546439275!3d34.039490275172646!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x80c2c7c64cbef997%3A0x9c72000eb2228517!2sLos%20Angeles%2C%20CA%2090015!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1686781287272!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="600" height="450" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen="" loading="eager" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>
</details>
<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/danactolman" classname="resume-anchor">linkedin.com/in/danactolman</a> <br />

### Summary

---

Quality Assurance Engineer with experience in the design,  development, deployment of web-based applications, UI/API automation testing , and automation tools. Practiced in a variety of programming languages, including JavaScript, Python, and C#. Proficient with popular libraries and frameworks such as Cypress, Selenium, Behave, SpecFlow, and RestSharp. Adept in working with web services, project management tools, databases, and network traffic inspection tools. Passionate about new technologies and eager to trial and understand their use and implementation as solutions, but also for fun. Patience, collaborative success, adapting to dynamic and fast changing environments, and swift learning have been proven over 6+ years in resolving daily and unexpected challenges in customer service, teaching, and management.

### Skills  

---

**Languages**: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Python, C#  
**Frameworks & Libraries**: Node.js, Express, React, Django, .NET  
**Testing Tools**: Postman, RestSharp, JavaScript Fetch API, Chai.js, Cypress, Puppeteer, SpecFlow, Selenium, Behave, Cucumber  
**Databases**: MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Redis, SQLite3  
**Middleware**: RabbitMQ  
**Network Traffic Inspection**: mitmproxy  
**Authorization Libraries**: Bcrypt.js, JSON Web Token, OAuth  
**Web Services**: HTTP, REST  
**Web Servers**: NGINX, AWS, Google Cloud  
**CICD**: git  
**Project Management**: SCRUM, KANBAN, Jira, Asana, Trello  

### Project Experience

---

#### Network Traffic Analyzer
[gitfront.io/r/dctii/ZL3wJEGQYNe6/url-query-string-analyzer/](https://gitfront.io/r/dctii/ZL3wJEGQYNe6/url-query-string-analyzer/)
- **What**: bash/zsh, Mitmproxy 9.x, Selenium 3.x, Python3
- **Why**: Automate checking Google Analytics query string parameters, but can be adjusted to check the parameters of any domain's query strings.
- **How**: 
	- Automate local web proxy enabling and disabling via a bash/zsh script as an initial step before activating mitmproxy.
	- mitmproxy used as a network traffic inspector that captures traffic on target URLs that are visited. mitmproxy configured to filter target domain names and to intercept target HTTP request method to improve readability on mitmproxy flow list.
	- Headless browser automation for Chrome or Firefox done via Selenium. Selenium generates browser instances that will visit each URL, generating the network traffic that mitmproxy inspects.
	- mitmproxy script initializes by taking in a URL collection and generates a set and writes them to a CSV. After, it opens a listener for the target query string parameters that may exist as a network traffic item on a target URL.
	- mitmproxy terminates by comparing the list of URLs against the list or URLs satisfying the listener, then generates a list of all the URLs visited, showing a PASS or FAIL marker for each URL.

#### SEO Auditing Toolkit
[gitfront.io/r/dctii/8Mo11TdKw2ph/seo-audit-tool/](https://gitfront.io/r/dctii/8Mo11TdKw2ph/seo-audit-tool/)
- **What**: Node, Puppeteer, Cheerio, prettify
- **Why**: Analyzer to check for SEO compliance on target web pages
- **How**:
	- Headless browser automation via Puppeteer.
	- Cheerio used to select and scrape HTML data returned in HTTP responses.
	- Options for using latency profiles included, e.g., mobile-3g at 14 mbps, mobile-4g at 100mbps, custom mbps selection, etc.
	- Node used as server and package manager. Standard Node modules used to run a "speed checker" using Ookla speedtest-cli via shell commands to evaluate the local machine's maximum download speed. The values are parsed from the STDOUT and returned as values to be compared against the latency profile, affirming the selection if the measurement is greater than or equal to the profile, otherwise rejecting the profile and using the max measurement.
	- Tools included:
		- *Response Time Checker*: check the response time of a single URL or collection of URLs. Returns "time taken" in seconds, "size by bytes", and whether the browser was or wasn't headless.
		- *Content Exporter with option to prettify*: clones data from a target URL resource and exports it to a target local folder. If the option to prettify is set to true, the cloned resource will be formatted by prettier code formatter. The exporter can sense how to handle the cloning and prettifying process by checking its MIME Type and, if available, its explicit file extension. Buttressed with conditions for "download-only", like executables, archive files (e.g., zip, tar, etc), files whose text-content is unable to be evaluated by Cheerio, will be downloaded to the local folder using node-fetch.
		- *HTML Element Checker*: Pass in Expectations and check against HTML at target pages to see if they PASS or FAIL. Can check for existence, absolute or relative count, text content or values to accept or reject.
		- *HREF Analyzer*: Analyze all href values on target URLs and identify which are inlinks, outlinks, unique, a duplicate, and if it has a 'rel' attribute with the value 'nofollow'. Returns a table of the results. If there duplicates or there are any bad status codes, then a FAIL is returned.
		- *Redirect Chain Checker*:Check a target URL for its redirect chain. Can pass in an expectation of the redirect URLs in the chain and the status codes expected. If expectation is satisfied, then PASS>
		- *robots.txt Checker and Parser* - Checks for the existence of a robots.txt file at the base URL of the target host. If exists, then PASS is returned. Also parses the data and tokenizes "Sitemap" URLs and "Allow" and "Disallow" values into an array. User-agents and their parameters are demarcated from each other.
		- *SRC Checker*: Sanity check of all 'src' values on a target page. Check for duplicates and visits the href values if it is an HTTP/HTTPS schemed URL. Non-schemeful URLs are not visited and are sorted into a separate collection of data. If status codes are 200-299 or 304 and there are no duplicates, then PASS. Expectations can contain exceptions, such as disabling FAIL for finding duplicates.
		- *Status Code Checker*: Checks the status code of target URLs. If all are '200', then PASS.
		- *xRobots Checker*: Checks for the existence of an X-Robots-Tag header from any network traffic passing through the page. Returns the number of those with and without the header. For any that exist, the URL and the value of the 'X-Robots-Tag' property are returned.
	- All results are returned in the console.

#### Cypress UI Automation Testing Suite
- **What**: Node, Cypress, JavaScript, Chai, Mocha Awesome
- **Why**: UI Automation Testing Suite for Mobile and Desktop version of target website. Fitted to dynamically check element groups, e.g. items in a navlist
- **How**:
		- Interacts with elements and implements Chai assertions while traversing, checking, and tracking dynamic changes
		- Runs add and remove from wishlist and cart sequence, interacts with chat bot, and subscribes to e-mail newsletter
		- Dynamically checks navigation menu items at header and footer.
		- Runs sanity check on all href and src values on page.
		- Report generated by Mocha Awesome.
		- Configured to run all Chromium browsers, Webkit browser, and Firefox
		- Separate Cypress configurations for Desktop and Mobile available

#### Python UI Automation Testing Suite
- **What**: Python3, Selenium, Behave, Cucumber+, Allure
- **Why**: UI Automation Testing Suite for Mobile and Desktop version for end-to-end e-Commerce site regression.
- **How**:
	- Selenium used to interact with elements and its expected_conditions module used for assertions
	- Use Behave and Cucumber+ with PyCharm IDE for Gherkin feature files and step definitions that run regression on essential aspects of an e-Commerce website
	- Runs add and remove from wishlist and cart flow, interacts with chat bot, subscribes to e-mail newsletter, payment and checkout flow, account registration and log-in and logout flow, and virtual appointment booking flow.
	- Report generated by Allure
	- Configured to run all Chromium browsers and Firefox

#### API Testing Automation Suite
- **What**: C#, dotnet, SpecFlow, RestSharp, Postman
- **Why**: OAuth2 Login, Access Token retrieval, and CRUD Test via REST API
- **How**:
	- dotnet Solution structure created to house a shared code library and two projects. One project is used to type out and debug programming logic with C# and the RestSharp library. The second is for the SpecFlow testing environment.
	- Uses test data generator to simulate realistic scenario
	- SpecFlow used for testing environment, specifically for Gherkin implementation
	- Shared code library created to reduce redundancy and ensures projects in the solution are isolated.
	- Postman used as a support to debug to match expected results.


#### IT Service Management Tool
[gitfront.io/r/dctii/wZAHXSWNaBSU/support-desk](https://gitfront.io/r/dctii/wZAHXSWNaBSU/support-desk)
- **What**: MongoDB, Node, Express, axios, React, Redux, JWT, Bcrypt.js, Heroku
- **Why**: Case manager for customer product issues
- **How**: 
	- Server and backend communication via Node, Express, and, for APIs, axios library
	- User registration data and issue ticket data, status, details, and notes stored in a MongoDB database.
	- Authentication and security concerns addressed via JWT and Bcrypt.js integration.
	- States and side effects managed with Redux.
	- Custom CSS used for mobile-responsive design.
	- Deployment via CICD pipeline to Heroku.

#### Real Estate Sales Front
[gitfront.io/r/dctii/YTRpqhimjuCm/house-marketplace](https://gitfront.io/r/dctii/YTRpqhimjuCm/house-marketplace)
  - **What**: Google Firebase, axios, Postman, React, Bootstrap, LeafletJS
  - **Why**: Real Estate salesfront for users to list their properties for sale or rent.
  - **How**:
	- Server and backend handled with Google Firebase, and, for APIs, axios library.
	- User registration data and OAuth2 managed with Google Firebase Authentication. Providers include Google, Facebook, GitHub, Twitter, Yahoo, and Microsoft. General registration via e-Mail or Phone also available.
	- Property listing data, including property details and geolocation data, stored in Firebase Firestore. Listing images stored in Firebase Storage. Users upload product data via Firebase SDK.
	- API paths tested with Postman. Paths tested include general user registration and Google Maps post address geocoding into latitude and longitude.
	- State and side effects managed with React Hooks. Deployed the front end through Firebase.
	- Bootstrap for styling buttons and implementing forms. Custom CSS was used for mobile responsiveness.
	- Interactive Map via Leaflet calling on specific listing's stored geolocation data from Firebase Firestore.

#### GitHub Finder
[gitfront.io/r/dctii/cqvqd4SdutNQ/github-finder](https://gitfront.io/r/dctii/cqvqd4SdutNQ/github-finder)
- **What**: Node, React, axios, Daisy UI, TailwindCSS, Postman
- **Why**: To retrieve GitHub account information using GitHub's API
- **How**:
	- Node used as frontend server.
	-  axios to communicate with GitHub API
	- States managed via React Hooks and React Contexts
	- Dynamic UI designed with React, Daisy UI, and TailwindCSS.

#### Rotary Club Informational Website
[gitfront.io/r/dctii/Zr5iHyfiBdyE/bj-rotary](https://gitfront.io/r/dctii/Zr5iHyfiBdyE/bj-rotary)  
 [www.firsteclubofchina.com](https://www.firsteclubofchina.com)  
-   **What**: Django 4.x, PostgreSQL, NGINX, Ubuntu 20.x, Bootstrap 5
-   **Why**: An informational website for a client's Rotary Club in Beijing
-   **How**:
    - Server and backend communication via NGINX, Django, psycopg2 for PostgreSQL,
    - Content and user data stored in PostgreSQL database.
    - Django CMS for managing users and content. django-admin-interface package used to customize admin interface to match frontend theme.
    - Django Q API used to sort and filter club event data. django-taggit used as tag manager system for events.
    - 'Contact Us' form submission bound with Django's SMTP protocol so users can e-mail the club directly through the website.
    - Django template language used to design the static layout page that extends a uniform design across the website. Bootstrap 5 used to ensure mobile responsive design.
    - Deployed via CICD pipeline to a remote Ubuntu 20.x server.
    - NGINX used to serve Django application on the domain name. Configured so SSL ceritifcation is used and always defaults to HTTPS.

#### CSV Comparison Tool
[gist.github.com/dctii/fd05e9c2b768ff164c4758e9c00b84f9](https://gist.github.com/dctii/fd05e9c2b768ff164c4758e9c00b84f9)
  - **What**: Python3, pandas
  - **Why**: compare two CSV files and highlight their differences in data
  - **How**:
	  - Used pandas library to read two CSVs, and then manipulate and analyze their data. 
	  - Outputs a new CSV file with the differences between the two original files. Successfully compared pricing sheets that had over 290,000 rows and 40 columns.

#### High School Academic Writing Guides
[dropbox.com/scl/fo/4nhm0amc8ni42nizwejfh/h?dl=0&rlkey=b6h7x3v3tlhj6cndczl0jdtoe](https://dropbox.com/scl/fo/4nhm0amc8ni42nizwejfh/h?dl=0&rlkey=b6h7x3v3tlhj6cndczl0jdtoe)
- **What**: Microsoft Word, PDF Expert
- **Why**: Argumentative, Reflective, and College Admission writing guides for senior high school students
- **How**:
	- Considered the guide's target audience. Graded the guide's language to the appropriate level and provided persuasive arguments and information to motivate them to use the guide to help them understand their purpose and the future products they would deliver.
	- Explanations, examples, internal and external resources, and strategies provided to follow in order to structure their development and production process.
	- Used consistent color schemes and images to focus and discern essential elements to understand and include in the finished product.
	- Expectations via examples or graded tiers and scoring rubrics included throughout or at the end of the guides to clarify how the end-product was to be measured.
	- Qualitative sources cited throughout or in a bibliography at the end as corroboration for the logic and rhetoric communicated with the guide.

#### Academic Manager Induction
[dropbox.com/sh/cd0ihkgqu5lamkr/AABiOvxY0cmjDF9a_laGBSfRa](https://dropbox.com/sh/cd0ihkgqu5lamkr/AABiOvxY0cmjDF9a_laGBSfRa)
- **What**: Microsoft Office, Microsoft To-Do, Tencent WeWork/WeCom, Salesforce Lightning, EF Learner Management System, EF CRM & CRS Portal
- **Why**: Training module for incoming Academic Managers. Introduces duties and their frequencies, technologies for management and communication, and strategies and resources to maintain management responsibilities.
- **How**:
	- Considered the guide's target audience. Provided lots of screenshots and images of templates and actual products that the incoming managers would be using and producing. Constructed the slides in a way that queues the presenter and elicits interaction and queries from the audience.
	- Module is opened and closed with an overview and review and quiz to encapsulate the induction's scope at both ends.
	- Order of the module is broken down by frequency of duty (daily, weekly, monthly, and quarterly), followed by clarifying tentative deadlines for monthly and quarterly duties and how to define expectations with oneself and with supervised staff and co-managers.
	- Models and simulated practice included for hands-on experience with responsibilities and technologies to ensure future delivery and to clarify any confusions related to fulfilling duties.
	- Organized and introduced an area on the center's cloud server via Tencent WeCom/WeWork to facilitate finding resources and technologies needed to fulill responsibilities effectively.

### Education & Certificates

---

**Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) Philosophy**  
*California State University, Fullerton*  

**Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) Psychology**  
*California State University, Fullerton*  

**Certificates:**  
*See* [linkedin.com/in/danactolman/details/certifications/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/danactolman/details/certifications/)

### Job Experience

---

**Deputy Manager & Academic Literature & Writing Teacher**   (Aug 2020 - Feb 2022)  
*Beijing 21st Century International School, Beijing, China*
- Used the ADDIE model, similar to the SDLC, to create, deploy, manage, deliver, and maintain, the induction program for new high school teachers and Grade 10 -12 curricula for my department.
- Coordinated and counseled weekly progress meetings, individual teachers, and students for current, retrospective, and prospective purposes, making adjustments as necessary to successfully meet target goals within an accurate timeframe.
- Redesigned, truncated, and delivered two ACT Global Assessment Certificate curriculums by prioritizing minimal completion prerequisites of students within a team, successfully completing the curriculum in 50% of the original program's estimated time with a 98% passing rate for students. This success enabled the school to become an ACT test-taking location in Beijing.
- Developed 3 technical writing guides to distill essential practices and principles for students in argumentative, reflective, and college admissions Essay writing. Documents included strategies, real-world examples, and specifications to guide success.
- As part of the college admissions team, I trained, reviewed, and consulted 96 Grade 12 students' college admissions essays. 100% of the students were admitted into notable universities, including Oxford University, Cambridge University, UC Berkeley, NYU, Vanderbilt, Boston University, USC, and the University of Washington.

**Director of Studies & English Language Teacher** (Sept 2015 - Aug 2020)  
*EF English First China, Dalian, Liaoning Province, China*
- Used the ADDIE model to create, manage, deploy, deliver, and maintain 600+ pieces of digitally accessible teaching content, new teacher and Director of Studies induction training, and 18 training workshops for academic staff.
- Provided continual analysis, evaluation, and detailed feedback and consultation on a weekly basis for teachers. Produced 15 quarterly key performance indicator reports were delivered, followed by meetings where retrospective evaluations were done to identify bugs in teaching, content, strategy, environment, and edge cases; and then debug together to create a prospective action plan where a new method would be implemented into the next quarter of teaching.
- Migrated and trained the academic team from offline to online teaching during the Covid-19 pandemic.

**Customer Service Supervisor & Associate**  (Feb 2008 - Sept 2013)  
*Fry's Electronics, Fountain Valley, California, United States*
- Dedicated  5+ years in the delivery of customer service and trained all incoming associates in customer service operations. Led a team of 20+ associates in the Customer Service department.

### Honors

---

*See* [linkedin.com/in/danactolman/details/honors](https://linkedin.com/in/danactolman/details/honors)
