# Bits of Ethical Theory  

## Kavka & The Reconciliation Project  

Kavka lists four dimensions of the Reconciliation Project which is focused on reconciling prudence with morality. The objections say that they are not possible together because when prudence is involved then an action cannot be moral. The four dimensions that Kavka lists are the (1) audience, (2) agent, (3) social, and (4) object dimensions. Kavka proposes that a Hobbesian strategy of external sanctions, which only satisfies the object and social dimensions of the reconciliation projects. Kavka believes that the Hobbesian strategy ultimately gives up on the project and Kavka wants to take it further by suggesting internal sanctions and a moderate interpretation that limits the class of people included in the project. Kavka says that with the project is impossible on extreme interpretations of the four dimensions mentioned but that it is possible on moderate interpretations of those dimensions. First I will shortly say what each dimension regards and then I will explain what he means by this by using extreme examples of the audience dimension and the object dimension and also by using moderate examples of the agent and social dimensions.

The (1) audience dimension considers what kind of person the project is intended to persuade. The (2) agent dimension is what kind of person is considered in which prudence and morality can be reconciled. The (3) social dimension considers what kind of social environment is needed to reconcile prudence and morality. Lastly, the (4) object dimension considers whether it is rules, actions, or the way of life that is necessary for reconciling prudence and morality.

I will now begin with the extreme examples. An extreme example of the audience dimension would include individuals who are committed immoralists who lack the capacity for morality or any moral motivation. Emotionally disturbed individuals such as sociopaths would be classed under such circumstances. There is no way that these agents could be persuaded by the reconciliation project because they will never be able to become moral. Kavka argues that these people shouldn’t qualify because it is infinitely impossible to persuade someone who is absolutely opposed to any morality in the first place. If the immoralist announces tries to promote the benefits he gets for not being moral then he will be considered foolish because he has no ability to enjoy the rewards of morality. Second, an extreme example of the object dimension only rules that there can be external sanctions because of the Hobbesian assumption that all humans are psychological egoists. Because of this assumption it would consider strict rules used as deterrents to make offensive violations irrational because the risk in being caught is not worth the consequences that follow. The problem we find is amongst defense violations which Hobbes considers to be unnecessary because if one follows all the rules across the board then they make themselves vulnerable to other offenders. This extreme interpretation allows agents to forgo morality on the assumption that they and everyone else around them are psychological egoists so the reconciliation project fails.

Here I will exemplify the moderate examples of the agent dimension and the social dimension. First, a moderate example of the agent dimension could be one which limits the scope of the project’s consideration to human beings who only have moral motivations and capacities because they would consider the benefits of morality and be able to reconcile their self-interest with morality. Kavka wants to replace Hobbes psychological egoism assumption with a predominant egoism assumption which says that humans are just predominantly egoistic but have enough nonselfish concern that it would move them to benefit from embracing a moral life. Any agent of this moderate interpretation can appreciate nonselfish concern for his family and even friends. Second, a moderate example of the social dimension would necessitate Kavka’s notion of internal sanctions along with external sanctions. Internal sanctions are the punishments of conscience (i.e., guilt, shame, embarrassment, etc.) which would be sufficiently within such agents. Internal sanctions allow a relaxation of external sanctions because many would not violate out of their own self-conscience. This relaxation is beneficial and limits how much external sanctions would end up violating the rights of citizens and the costs that come with supporting the strict police force that would need to be constantly monitoring its citizens. But Kavka still says that external sanctions would be considered enough to best deter the inconvincible immoralists in society.

## Aristotle, The Chief Good for Humans, Role of the Virtues  

Aristotle thinks that the chief good for humans is eudaimonia, often translated as happiness and has been interpreted as “flourishing.” According to Aristotle, the virtues are what guide us toward the good; hence it ultimately guides us toward the chief good. In my answer I will explain why Aristotle thinks eudaimonia is the chief good for humans and his reasons for thinking that virtue has the role it does for our chief good.

Aristotle inquires into the nature of “ends” and determines that things are good by virtue of their function. For example, scissors are good by virtue of how well they cut, chefs by virtue of how well they cook, tongues on their capabilities of tasting, etc. Virtues are understood as bringing “excellence” to a thing and making it better. For a human to do good, it must, by virtue, aim at what is good for it. Aristotle argues that our unique capacity for reason allows us the capacity for reason and choice. From these we engage by means of activity towards aiming at what we think is good for ourselves.

Aristotle states that every action and choice aims at some good. What the good is will be relative to the subject but Aristotle thinks that the agent aims at what is good for him. These actions are the means to the end which is the “good” that the agent seeks. Some goods are good for another good. Aristotle inquires into what the “chief good,” or final end is from this. Without a final end, it seems that what any good is would proceed in an infinite progression forward and seem “empty and pointless.” Aristotle believes that this final end is eudaimonia because it is the only thing that is not done for the sake of something else, it is self-sufficient. Any action and choice is ultimately done for eudaimonia according to Aristotle.

Getting to eudaimonia is not an easy task though because it is an aim that agents easily distort with their aim at what a “good” is. Aristotle emphasizes on the importance of the virtues and their role in helping one aim at the true “good” that will assist them towards achieving eudaimonia. Aristotle thinks that “the human good becomes an activity of soul in accord with virtue…” The soul can be understood as the thing that distinctly makes us human. Humans are rational animals which include capacities for passions and desires but also reason and virtues in contrast to animals.  These capacities happen to direct us toward this ultimate aim, whether successful or not. The fact of the matter is that our purposes are directed towards it.

## Aristotle, Virtue, & The Doctrine of the Mean  

According to Aristotle, a virtue is that which helps a thing perform its function well. This was considered in the answer I had given in the last question. Our focus will be on moral virtue in this answer but I will discuss briefly the difference between it and intellectual virtue. I will then generally discuss what makes something a moral virtue. Lastly, I will discuss Aristotle’s doctrine of the mean in accordance with the virtues.

Intellectual virtues are character traits which are initially taught and require experience and time to gain. For instance, an individual learns carpentry from a carpenter to properly achieve the intellectual virtue of that craft (i.e., techne). Intellectual virtues are only an extreme and have one deficiency. For instance, in the virtue of justice, its contrary is injustice, in wisdom it would be foolishness, in knowledge it is lack of knowledge, etc. The moral virtues on the other hand are habitually learned characteristics. In contrast to intellectual virtues, moral virtues generally have two contraries which are its excess and deficiency for which we will discuss later when we consider the doctrine of the mean. Examples of moral virtues include courage, truthfulness, moderation, etc.

We now shift our focus what the characteristics of moral virtue are. Aristotle states that it is what helps us aim at the chief human good, something for which a virtuous person finds pleasurable, a voluntary choice, and a mean between two vices. We will skip why it helps us aim at the chief human good because it has already been explained in the answer to the last question. Aristotle thinks that everyone becomes virtuous or not and that they never come into the world starting off as bad or good. It is through their activities and how they go about them for which they become bad or good (e.g., courageous actions make a courageous person, cowardly behavior makes a coward). Aristotle tells us that the pleasures and pains one takes in his own deeds can tell us what kind of person he is. A coward would endure much pain in doing a courageous act whereas the courageous person would find a pleasure but not so much as he would be reckless. Doing virtuous acts is particular because it requires an agent with an intention. Aristotle says that it requires that the agent confidently acts with knowledge of the situation and does the action for itself (i.e., performing virtue for virtuous reasons). Further, the virtuous action is a voluntary choice. It is voluntary because it is not externally forced that the person acts virtuous. For instance, a moderate person actually chooses to ration his pleasures at a moment for the sake of moderation and this makes him a modest person whereas a licentious person who has been externally forced to ration his pleasures (e.g., by being put in prison, stripped of his opportunity for pleasures somehow) against his will is not modest. The voluntary choice is what makes virtue difficult to gain and difficult to follow because it is hard to maintain them and easy to destroy them. The choice towards vice comes easy and virtue can be destroyed with it.

Vices are the deficiencies and excesses of the moral virtues. Aristotle’s doctrine of the mean classifies virtues as “means” because it stands in between two vices which are located at the negative and positive extremes of virtue. Moral virtues are characterized by passions and actions which is why the virtue and its vices are ways of taking action regarding specified passions. For instance, concerning fear and confidence one may act courageously, cowardly, or recklessly. Aristotle points out that the virtue as a “mean” is not mathematically in between its opposing vices. By looking at the virtue of courage we can appreciate that it is closer to the vice of recklessness because it shares less extreme but sufficient characteristics of fearlessness but rarely any of being oversensitive to fear. So by the virtue being the “mean” it is the right proportion between excess and deficiency. According to Aristotle, following the doctrine of the mean will better help someone’s aim at the actual good through appreciation of the virtues and ultimately coming closer to eudaimonia.

## Objections to Virtue Ethics: Hursthouse  

The objection that Virtue ethics doesn’t include norms and cannot guide our moral decisions finds its problem in the concept of the “virtuous agent.”  The complaint from the deontologist is that Virtue ethics is agent-centered rather than action-centered and the utilitarian complains that it is about good and bad character rather than right and wrong action. Hursthouse gives a response to these objections claiming that Virtue ethics can tell us what we should do by her explication of “v-rules” (virtue rules) which are action-guiding rules that come from terminology of virtues and vices.

There are three significant objections to Virtue ethics’ capacity for action-guidance. First, virtue ethics doesn’t come up with any rules because it depends on a virtuous agent to get its guidance. Who is this virtuous agent? Second, virtue ethics can’t deliver moral education to children. Requesting the actions of the virtues is beyond a child’s grasp so it is not possible to morally educate children through virtue ethics. Third, different virtues conflict and become at odds with one another. For example, if honesty requires one to tell a hurtful truth, then it opposes virtues of kindness and compassion. I will discuss her responses to the objections first.

To the first objection, Hursthouse says that we actually seek advice from those who we judge to be morally superior to us (i.e., those we judge as morally better than us). V-rules allow us to get guidance and they depend on moral superiors. The one superseding the rule would do as the virtuous person would. To the second objection, is that we tell children to “be kind” and not to be “mean” or “greedy” and through this they are being taught v-rules. For a child to become more completely morally educated he cannot just be told what not to do. To the third objection, Hursthouse says that the conflict is only apparent. The strategy is to think about the situation more or consult the wise. The conflict problem arises when there is a lack of moral knowledge of the virtue involved and how to apply it. Determining the right action is difficult because, according to Aristotle, virtues cannot just be learned from strictly academic measures. Further, to complete her response toward the objections she concludes that other ethical theories are “partners in guilt” in that they do no better in resolving the normative problems that Virtue ethics faces. Deontology and Utilitarianism both don’t tell one how to act. Deontology is concerned with understanding the moral rules and then action is paired with those moral rules. Utilitarianism is concerned with consequences first and then paired with the actions. Hursthouse points out that Virtue ethics can be concerned with “v-rules” and then paired with actions.

## Evolutionary Ethics 

Evolutionary ethics is a field concerned with how evolutionary history and mechanisms may account for morality. Psychological, behavioral, and namely biological nature are or may have implications about the origins of morality in contrast to some philosophical or religious assumptions. Evolutionary ethics seeks to resolve philosophical problems of ethics by grounding its claims in scientific evidence and evaluation. I will use the concept of kin selection in order to explain some important ideas that give plausibility to the claims of evolutionary ethics. Afterwards I will discuss how we may use evolutionary ethics to explain what norms and moral intuitions are.

Kin selection is a strategy that favors the reproductive success of the gene pool. The importance of this concept is that it helps explain what appear to be “selfless” behaviors in organisms. Kin selection cleared up the confusion of natural selection regarding the individual organism. “Survival of the fittest” for an individual would mean any altruistic behavior would end up being counter-productive for its own fitness, so why would they do selfless acts? The answer lies in the idea of “selfish genes.” The genes of an organism only appear to be selfish because they have a drive that perpetuates them to replicate regardless of the organism they belong to, hence the genes perpetuate the genes of their relatives. The genes will even engage in biological altruism in order to perpetuate and preserve “the greater good” of its gene pool. The emergence of social structure can be accounted for in these phenomena. For example, in honey bees the male workers will sting their victims in order to protect their hive and in turn sacrifice themselves as the barb is ripped out in the process, killing them. The external force of the “selfish gene” is the cause of the organism’s self-sacrifice.

Biological altruism can take another form called “reciprocal altruism” that doesn’t require self-sacrifice. Reciprocal altruism is evident in chimpanzees and their grooming activities. The curiosity about this mechanism is that a chimp that initially posits grooming one of its kin is technically taking a chance that the favor may not be returned to it. But when the favor is in fact returned, the chimps mutually bond and strengthen their cooperation amongst each other. The more this phenomenon spreads, the more bonding between individual chimps may occur. This case exemplifies how reciprocal altruism occurs between organisms and might account for the emergence of moral capacities which is rooted in emotions and social compliance. The emotional bond between organisms, such as chimps, can form a more cooperative therefore stronger coalition that will potentially increase preservation of the gene pool.

Understanding evolutionary morality might be understood in three important ways: (1) descriptively, (2) prescriptively, and/or (3) metaethically. (1) Descriptively, evolution might tell us how norms and moral intuitions may have emerged through the past. From the evidence of the chimpanzees, who are a common relative according to our evolutionary history, it might be understood that our norms and moral intuitions emerged as mechanisms to encourage social compliance, which include selfless acts, which may help us appreciate why humans experience love or empathy. (2) Prescriptively, evolution might tell us why normative or moral intuitions are justified or not. Some concepts of this involve justifying historical and contemporary social structures of humans. (3) Metaethically, evolution would seek to undermine metaethical theories. For example, it might tell us that morality is only a biological expression and that there actually no objective moral values at all.

## Rawls, Competent Moral Judges, & Considered Moral Judgments  

In order to account for a decision procedure that aims at establishing objective rules, Rawls seeks standards for a good ethical judge. A “competent moral judge” with “considered moral judgments” are some such standards that Rawls conceptualizes. I will explain Rawls’s account of what defines a “competent moral judge” and the “considered moral judgments” beginning in the following two paragraphs. Afterward I will explain how our moral judgments can be objective from Rawls’s concepts formerly mentioned.

There are four requirements that define a competent moral judge: (1) the judge is of average intelligence, (2) has knowledge of common states of affairs of the world, (3) is characterized as a “reasonable man,” and (4) has “sympathetic knowledge.” I will further detail these requirements now. (1) Average intelligence determines that the moral judge possesses “moral insight.” That form of insight is no immediately apparent but can be reliably determined if the judge indeed meets average intelligence. This could be possibly accounted for by the judge’s capacities, achievements, and/or habits. In fact, the right measure of all these accounts would consider all of the other requirements to belong to the judge as well. (2) Furthermore, the judge requires a familiarity with the common actions and facts involved in common states of affairs so that he better understands the moral conflict at hand. (3) To qualify as a “reasonable man” the judge would want to use induction, considers any feasible facts and reevaluation opportunities, and is also aware of his biases and restrains the effect they would have in moving his judgment. The recognition of a “reasonable man” is good for what is immediately sufficient for recognizing a competent moral judge. (4) It is called “sympathetic knowledge” because it requires that the judge can at least have enough life experience regarding general human interests so that the judge can properly assess the interest(s) of those concerned as if they were the judge’s own. After being able to reach this level of understanding is the competent moral judge able to decide whether the particular case is just or not.

I will now define the “considered moral judgments” as they are crucial for understanding the conditions as to which the competent moral judge may come to make a proper decision. I will list the requirements that Rawls notes: (1) the judge cannot be punished for his decision; (2) the judge cannot be a participant in the interests concerned because of the likely potential that is will move his judgment; (3) it must involve actual cases because they tend to be more familiar and proper for the minimum requirements of the competent moral judge; (4) the judge can only make a decision once all relevant facts and the concerned persons have been thoroughly considered; (5) the judge must have certitude (i.e., a compelling feeling of certainty); (6) the judgment must be stable in the sense that it holds across other cases of its kind and there has been a sufficient amount of competent judgments previous to the present judgment; (7) the judgment must be “intuitive with respect to ethical principles.” The last requirement is tricky so I will explain what is quoted in my answer about how Rawls shows us how our moral judgments can be objective from his concepts.

Rawls goal of setting up good standards for an ethical judge gives us reason to believe that ethical principles would actually come from the competent judge itself.  An important determinant of such an objective possibility is the requirement of a judgment being “stable.” The requirement of stability ensures that a cooperation of many separate competent moral judges in many proper conditions across history helps ensure an objective moral judgment. Further, all of the requirements, in fact, ensure the possibility of an unbiased decision from the judge. I saved the last requirement of a “considered moral judgment” to empower Rawls’s claim in this section. Being “intuitive with respect to ethical principles” ensures that one of the most compelling influences, which can even cause the brilliant to be partial, is another convincing ethical theory that would influence the judgment of an agent. This is why Rawls emphasizes on the notion of a considered moral judgment to be “intuitive” in the sense that follows the judge’s common and reasonable sense more. This intuitive aspect of judgment is what keeps the any ethical principles made by competent moral judges grounded in them hence keeping them objective. Here is something at the end… and a second thing at the end... and then a third thing.

(i) Here is the first item. (ii) Next is the second item. (iii) After that is the third. Let's skip ahead.

(44) And they went way.

(A) Here is the first item. (B) Next is the second item. (c) After that is the third. Let's skip ahead.

(XCIX) Here is the 99th (which means the one in place 99 of 100) item. (I) Here is the first item, (II) the second, and (IIi) the third item.

- list item
- list item
- list item

1. list item
2. list item
3. list item

My e-mail is danactolman@gmail.com. I have a website at https://www.nike.com/.

<br />
<br />